readme.md, before:

# rate-limit-postgresql

[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](code_of_conduct.md)

A [`PostgreSQL`](https://www.postgresql.org/) store for the
[`express-rate-limit`](https://github.com/nfriedly/express-rate-limit)
middleware.

## Installation

From the npm registry:

```sh
# Using npm
> npm install --save @acpr/rate-limit-postgresql
# Using yarn or pnpm
> yarn/pnpm add @acpr/rate-limit-postgresql
```

## Usage

Functional examples for using `rate-limit-postgresql` are found in the
[following repository](https://github.com/adrianprelipcean/express-rate-limit-postgresql-examples)

```js
let rateLimit = require('express-rate-limit')
let postgresStores = require('@acpr/rate-limit-postgresql')

let limiter = new RateLimit({
	store: new postgresStores.PostgresStore(
		{
			user: 'postgres',
			password: 'postgres',
			host: 'localhost',
			database: 'rate-limit',
			port: 5432,
		},
		'aggregated_store',
	),
	windowMs: 15 * 60 * 1000, // 15 minutes
	max: 3, // Limit each IP to 3 requests per `window` (here, per 15 minutes)
	message:
		'Too many accounts created from this IP, please try again after 15 minutes',
	standardHeaders: 'draft-7', // Set `RateLimit` and `RateLimit-Policy`` headers
	legacyHeaders: false,
})

//  apply to all requests
app.use(limiter)
```

### Importing

This library is provided in ESM as well as CJS forms, and works with both
Javascript and Typescript projects.

**This package requires you to use Node 16 or above.**

Import it in a CommonJS project (`type: commonjs` or no `type` field in
`package.json`) as follows:

```ts
let postgresStores = require('@acpr/rate-limit-postgresql')
```

Import it in a ESM project (`type: module` in `package.json`) as follows:

```ts
import postgresStores from '@acpr/rate-limit-postgresql'
```

## Configuration

### Types of Postgres Stores

There are two different types of Postgres Stores:

1. `PostgresStoreAggregatedIP` (with the default `PostgresStore` constructor)-
   which aggregates the IP count in the table, as shown in the following table

| key         | session_id | count |
| ----------- | ---------- | ----- |
| 192.168.1.1 | 1          | 3     |
| 192.168.2.1 | 1          | 1     |

2. `PostgresStoreIndividualIP` - which stores the IP of each request in a
   separate row (as shown in the following table) and performs the aggregation
   at a separate step

| id  | key         | session_id | event_time                |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------------------------- |
| 1   | 192.168.1.1 | 1          | 2023-09-13T07:40:09+00:00 |
| 2   | 192.168.1.1 | 1          | 2023-09-13T07:40:10+00:00 |
| 3   | 192.168.1.1 | 1          | 2023-09-13T07:40:11+00:00 |
| 4   | 192.168.2.1 | 1          | 2023-09-13T07:40:11+00:00 |

> Note: The database uses UUID as a data type for IDs, the tables contain
> integers as IDs to keep illustration simple.

### Constructor

Both types of store take the same input in their constructor

- `config` - The database configuration as specified in the
  [node-postgres](https://node-postgres.com/apis/client) configuration.
- `name` - The unique name of the session. This is useful when applying multiple
  rate limiters with multiple stores.

## Installation

Project license is specified in the [license file](license.md). Third party
licenses are located in the [third_party_licenses folder](third_party_licenses)

Commit message:

feat: Use prefix instead of name.
Fixes https://github.com/adrianprelipcean/express-rate-limit-postgresql/issues/3

readme.md, after:

# rate-limit-postgresql

[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](code_of_conduct.md)

A [`PostgreSQL`](https://www.postgresql.org/) store for the
[`express-rate-limit`](https://github.com/nfriedly/express-rate-limit)
middleware.

## Installation

From the npm registry:

```sh
# Using npm
> npm install --save @acpr/rate-limit-postgresql
# Using yarn or pnpm
> yarn/pnpm add @acpr/rate-limit-postgresql
```

## Usage

Functional examples for using `rate-limit-postgresql` are found in the
[following repository](https://github.com/adrianprelipcean/express-rate-limit-postgresql-examples)

```js
let rateLimit = require('express-rate-limit')
let postgresStores = require('@acpr/rate-limit-postgresql')

let limiter = new RateLimit({
	store: new postgresStores.PostgresStore(
		{
			user: 'postgres',
			password: 'postgres',
			host: 'localhost',
			database: 'rate-limit',
			port: 5432,
		},
		'aggregated_store',
	),
	windowMs: 15 * 60 * 1000, // 15 minutes
	max: 3, // Limit each IP to 3 requests per `window` (here, per 15 minutes)
	message:
		'Too many accounts created from this IP, please try again after 15 minutes',
	standardHeaders: 'draft-7', // Set `RateLimit` and `RateLimit-Policy`` headers
	legacyHeaders: false,
})

//  apply to all requests
app.use(limiter)
```

### Importing

This library is provided in ESM as well as CJS forms, and works with both
Javascript and Typescript projects.

**This package requires you to use Node 16 or above.**

Import it in a CommonJS project (`type: commonjs` or no `type` field in
`package.json`) as follows:

```ts
let postgresStores = require('@acpr/rate-limit-postgresql')
```

Import it in a ESM project (`type: module` in `package.json`) as follows:

```ts
import postgresStores from '@acpr/rate-limit-postgresql'
```

## Configuration

### Types of Postgres Stores

There are two different types of Postgres Stores:

1. `PostgresStoreAggregatedIP` (with the default `PostgresStore` constructor)-
   which aggregates the IP count in the table, as shown in the following table

| key         | session_id | count |
| ----------- | ---------- | ----- |
| 192.168.1.1 | 1          | 3     |
| 192.168.2.1 | 1          | 1     |

2. `PostgresStoreIndividualIP` - which stores the IP of each request in a
   separate row (as shown in the following table) and performs the aggregation
   at a separate step

| id  | key         | session_id | event_time                |
| --- | ----------- | ---------- | ------------------------- |
| 1   | 192.168.1.1 | 1          | 2023-09-13T07:40:09+00:00 |
| 2   | 192.168.1.1 | 1          | 2023-09-13T07:40:10+00:00 |
| 3   | 192.168.1.1 | 1          | 2023-09-13T07:40:11+00:00 |
| 4   | 192.168.2.1 | 1          | 2023-09-13T07:40:11+00:00 |

> Note: The database uses UUID as a data type for IDs, the tables contain
> integers as IDs to keep illustration simple.

### Constructor

Both types of store take the same input in their constructor

- `config` - The database configuration as specified in the
  [node-postgres](https://node-postgres.com/apis/client) configuration.
- `prefix` - The unique name of the session (persisted in the database). Used by
  the double-count check to avoid false-positives when a key is counted twice,
  but with different prefixes.

## Installation

Project license is specified in the [license file](license.md). Third party
licenses are located in the [third_party_licenses folder](third_party_licenses)
